How did the two sexes evolve in the first place? If reproduction requires two compatible sets of genitals, how did those structures develop without one appearing before the other??

The fundamental thing to understand is that the method of getting one gamete, Sperm, to merge with another, eggs, using genitals is a separate process from the diversification of those cells. You can think of it like this. 1. Originally cells just copied themselves, 2. Cells developed the ability to absorb genetic material to repair themselves, 3. It became advantageous to use that absorbing mechanism to mix. And match genetic material for reproduction as well - it creates more diversity and therefore more survivability in certain conditions. 4. Again for diversity reasons it's advantageous to avoid self-mating, So cells that only merge with a slightly different "type" of the same species of cell survive better. That's your first version of the "sperm plus egg" mechanism. 5. These "anisogamic", an equals not, iso equals same, gamy equals sex, cells are more likely to survive if one of them is mobile. And fast, and the other is large and nutrient-rich, so evolutionary pressure pushes cells closer and closer to the sperm and egg paradigm. 6. As organisms grow more complex, they evolve special tissues that produce these cells. The more complex they get, the more they have to evolve methods of getting the cells to each other. Hence, genitals. A commenter added more detail. They originally developed isogamy where both gametes were equal sizes.\ The different sexes came along when the gametes diverged into more numerous. But smaller sized gametes that were cheaper to produce and larger lower count gametes that survived better as such.\ Somewhere between these hermaphroditism occurred. Someone else offered a different angle. Sex started way before genitals. Some unicellular organism have sexual reproduction. With multicellular organism, there was a strong selection for organism who could reproduce better than other. The majority of species alive today that have sexual reproduction don't have a penis or vagina and still sexually reproduce. Under of million of years of selection will produce all kind of sexual reproductive organs,.