How exactly can we communicate with voyager l and voyager ll so well when they are so ridiculously far away, and how can we know whether those commands have been successfully carried out??

It is certainly no easy thing to communicate with a probe at around a light day away, the key steps are something like this. Each probe has a 3.7-meter high-gain antenna to transmit data via 23-watt radio transmitter. This dish needs to be kept pointed to an accuracy of around 0.1 degrees so that its footprint covers the earth. Its transmitter's carrier wave is on continuously and amp, acts a beacon such that the 70 meter dishes of the Deep Space Network, DSN, that are spread around the globe can pick it out of the background, about one-quadrillionth of a watt at the feed horn. The probe's onboard computer has a schedule for transmitting data to earth to match the scheduled listening times of selected DSN dishes, About daily for around 8 hours. It transmits its status and amp, some science data it has stored internally at around 160 bps on each occasion. And amp, that data rate includes a ton of encoding and amp, redundancy to the actual data rate is much slower. There is also a ranging mode where the Voyager's will echo back immediately certain received signals. So as to effectively measure the distance to the probe. As to actively listening for commands, this is usually not done during the down-link period but is scheduled in before or after. The big trick then is that if there are any commands that need to be. Sent to the probe they will be carefully reviewed and emulated for safety before transmission. And amp, then queued up to be transmitted from one of the DSN dishes, Such that the signal travelling outward at the speed of light arrives at the probe only when it is ready to listen. As which point it will receive, echo back, decode, review and amp, act on the signal, then respond with any required response codes. Which when you consider the nearly 48 hour round trip for each signal means every message and amp, response is eagerly awaited. A commenter added more detail. There is an excellent documentary about the folks who maintain the connection with Voyager called [It's Quieter in. The Twilight]( Some of the folks on this team have been working on Voyager for their entire careers. [This is the review at Film Threat]( oddly, it does not appear to be Wikipedia-notable in and of itself, which is a shame. I believe it's available on AppleTV, but probably other sources as well. Someone else offered a different angle. One of the descriptions that stuck with me is that the signals we are looking for from the probes are. So weak when they reach Earth, it is equivalent to watching the Sun and sensing a match being lit on its surface.