how do we know scallops/oysters cannot feel pain??

The question is always if perception of damage gets represented in the brain similarly as it is for us, pain. Bivalves have no complex brain but rather a decentralised system of ganglia. So the question can be asked if they are even capable of producing any kind of consciousness. Which is often seen as a prerequisite for feeling pain. A commenter added more detail. Proving the absolute lack of something, in this kind of context, is often impossible. We’re left with a process of elimination. we can see that the neurology of these creatures is significantly simpler or more rudimentary than, say, a mammal’s. Mammals have complex circuitry that centralizes perception and coordinates complex responses to environmental stimuli. At the opposite end of the spectrum, a scallop is more complex than a single-celled microbe, which flees from a harmful chemical. Does the single cell feel subjective pain as part of the response to move away from harm? Probably not. So, there seems to be a blurry line between automatic reactions to harm, and subjective perceptions motivating an escape from harm. What counts as “pain” is highly definitional, And possible expressions of it that deviate from our own experience, per our nature as mammals, have been historically dismissed. Formerly popular philosophy used to consider all animals as complete automatons, feeling nothing. It’s quite impossible to say what the subjective perception of a scallop is with any certainty. Perhaps with no central governance to determine “painful” stimuli, there is no cohesive subjective entity to perceive anything. Perhaps the isolated tissue perceiving damage is experiencing some fraction of a subjective perception. Hard to say without being a scallop. Someone else offered a different angle. We don’t know that bivalves, and likewise, insects, cannot feel pain. Pain is a very complicated and interconnected nervous response, and we understand surprisingly little on the topic even as it relates to humans. But we don’t think they do, or if they do, it’s not the same way that complex creatures do. Animals that seem capable of nociception show the understanding that something bad happened to them and that they may need to change their behavior. While they heal, but we don’t see them act distressed in the same way animals who feel pain do. We think it’s more of a “danger, Flee” signal to the animal, rather than a “pain, stop it.” When we feel pain, we get scared, we get sensitive. Bivalves don’t seem to. Does this count as “pain?” That’s kind of an open question! Bivalves certainly have something resembling pain happening at the biological level, but is that enough?